# Decentralised healthcare system using Blockchain

## Project Description
The exchange and utilisation of healthcare data have been managed by hospitals rather than patients. Blockchain can drive a fundamental change in the existing data exchange and ownership model by transitioning the system towards a patient-centric environment. This project aims to create a decentralised network of hospitals and solve the problems of interoperability and data ownership of Electronic Health Records (EHRs). This will allow patients to have access control over their medical data and its sharing. We also aim to create a fluid insurance claiming system in a trustless environment by referencing patients’ EHRs.  Due to a rise in the adoption of IoT, a large amount of medical data can be obtained directly or indirectly from the patient and can be used for health monitoring. We aim to use a small part of this IoT data to predict heart diseases. We also focus on implementing a tokenization system that will allow IoT devices to create their unique identity on the blockchain and allow patients to monetarily interact with the IoT devices.

## What is our idea? (In simple terms)
Currently, your medical data is scattered between hospitals. You have no say or control over who gets to share or access your medical records. We plan to solve this problem by creating a trustless system where you are the absolute owner of your information. You have the sole authority to give access to your EHRs to someone and, no centralised third party can block your transaction. As all your records from different sources are saved on the system, your medical history is effortless to maintain. Even though you are the owner of your information, you will not have the ability to edit or update any record generated by a hospital. If you update any files then that transaction will be saved in the system. This updated transaction can be viewed by others thus, detecting the fraud. Only storage of original documents generated by medical authorities is possible in the system. As original documents exist in the system, the patient can quickly claim their insurance after satisfying certain conditions mentioned by the insurance company. These conditions programmed in a contract are public and, anyone can see them. Because of this, the insurance companies have to create a uniform policy with distinct rules achieving an efficient mechanism to avoid fraud.

Suppose a patient wants to check the origin or track the ownership of a particular medicine or medical equipment. Our system enables them to do so with maximum reliability. Our solution achieves this reliability because every owner of an asset is tracked. This avoids pharmaceutical fraud because every transaction is public and is easy to trace. For example, suppose you want to see details about a pill. This pill would have a unique identifier. The manufacturer will upload details like its manufacturing date, the number of tablets, contents, et cetera in our system. If anyone in the supply chain tries to alter them, the patient can quickly identify the fraud.

Due to an increase in the adoption of IoT devices and data in healthcare, issues like privacy, security and ownership are paramount to solve. Our solution plans to create a secure way to transfer the data. The issues related to privacy and ownership are solved through blockchain. We also use this data to predict heart disease. 

## What is the problem? (Customer’s pain points)
- Problems With Centralised And Scattered Systems (A Single Point Of Failure, Trust, Integrity, Interoperability, Security, Privacy).
- Having Access Control Over Your Medical Data (Data Ownership).
- Maintaining A Medical History.
- Inefficiencies In Claiming Insurance.
- Detection Of Pharmaceutical Fraud (E.g., Change In The Manufacturing Date Of A Medicine).
- Reliable Provenance System.
- Remote Monitoring Of Patient Health.

## What is the solution? (How does it work for the customer)
Blockchain, by design, is good at keeping track of something over time and allows users to have control over their data. For example, in the case of Bitcoin or Ethereum, the user is in control of his/her funds (tokens) rather than a bank. This enables the user to send funds to anyone without worrying about problems with a centralised authority (in this case, a bank) like a single point of failure, trust, integrity, interoperability, security and privacy. Analogous to this is having absolute control over medical records and, no third party is responsible for controlling or sharing user data with anyone. Claiming insurance can be a tedious task. A patient is supposed to submit the original documents to the company and, after a thorough review, the company might comply with the claim. Our system solves this problem as original documents are stored immutably on the chain. Imagine a situation where a user's medical data is stored on the blockchain. An insurance company or doctor can request access to a part of that data. By using their private key (password), users can allow access to their data (for a limited time). As all interactions with user data are stored in the system, detecting fraud would be quick and effortless. Our system also solves the problem of keeping track of the patient's medical history as all records are maintained on the chain. This helps in proper diagnosis and accurate treatment of the disease by considering the patient's previous history. Patients can also check the integrity of medical equipment and medicine, in our solution, with an immutable provenance system. The adoption of IoT devices in healthcare can generate competent medical data. Our solution utilises a small part of this data and predicts heart disease.

